Professional Summary : Master-level educated, with 3+ years of prac%cing machine learning professional with 
experience in Data Engineering, Visualiza%on. Seeking a posi%on that will allow me to u%lize my skills to make a meaningful 
contribu%on to your esteemed organiza%on and build a long-term career. 
CERTIFICATIONS:
Google Cloud Certified Professional Data Engineer 
EDUCATION :
Master’s in Data Analytics, University of Illinois, Springfield (AUG 2022 – DEC 2023) 
Bachelor’s in Computer Science at GITAM University, Vizag, India (JUL 2018 – JUN 2022) 
TECH SKILLS
Programming Languages: Python, SQL, C/C++, Shell Scripting
Python Libraries: Pandas, Scikit-Learn, TensorFlow, Pytorch, Matplotlib
Hadoop Technologies: Hive, Spark, HDFS, MapReduce, Kafka, Pig, HBase 
Machine Learning: Decision Tree, SVM, Naïve Bayes, Regression, Classification, Neural Networks
Databases: Oracle, DB2, MySQL, PostgreSQL, 
NoSQL Databases: MongoDB, HBase, Oracle
Visualization Tools: Power BI, Advanced Excel
Version Control Systems: Git, GitHub, 
Operating Systems: Unix, Linux, Windows, MAC OS
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
TeksolveIT : (01/2024 - 09/2024) 
Role – Data Engineer, |Charlotte, NC | 
● Captured comprehensive business, system, and design requirements, conducting gap analysis.
● Designed a dynamic, cross-device, cross-browser, and mobile-friendly web dashboard using Angular JS.
● Orchestrated the development of Bot framework conversation flows with NODE-RED, NodeJS, and MS Bot framework.
● Managed SSIS packages for seamless data integration and transformation within Azure.
● Implemented client-side validation with Validation Controls and Angular Material Design.
● Engineered Spark applications using PySpark and Spark-SQL for data extraction, transformation, and aggregation.
● Established a CI/CD pipeline with Jenkins and Airflow for containerization using Docker and Kubernetes.
● Orchestrated ETL operations using SSIS, NIFI, Python scripts, and Spark Applications.
● Implemented data quality checks with Spark Streaming for data integrity.
● Utilized Python, Informatica, MS SQL SERVER, T-SQL, SSIS, SSRS, and SQL Server Management Studio for various tasks.
Environment: Hadoop, SSIS, SQL, Map Reduce, HDFS, Hive, Pig, Java, Hadoop distribution of Cloudera, Pig, Linux, XML, 
Eclipse, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL.
Tata Consultancy Services: (02/2021 - 05/2022) 
Role – Data Engineer, |India, Hyderabad | 
Prudhvi Reddy 
Email: prudhvireddy07@icloud.com Phone: (571) 396-1686
LinkedIn: Prudhvi Reddy | LinkedIn
● Designed and automated ETL operations from multiple data sources using Python. 
● Prepared reports with quantitative Data analysis and data visualization to provide insights using Power BI. 
● Distributed messaging system Kafka and SQL database. 
● Utilized Terraform for IaC within Snowflake while building out CI/CD pipelines for automated deployment.
● Tested the database using complex SQL queries and handling the performance issues effectively. 
● Implement a Continuous Delivery Pipeline with Docker and Git Hub. 
Environment: Python, Hortonworks, Scikit-Learn, TensorFlow, PyTorch , Databricks, Snowflake, Hadoop, Spark, Apache 
Kafka, SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Power BI, Apache Airflow, Jenkins 
Phoenix Global: (08/2020—12/2020) 
Role – Data Engineer (Intern) 
 
● Cleaned, pre-processed, and transformed a dataset consisting of 75 variables into 35 variables using domain 
knowledge, feature engineering, feature selection and visualization for my team. 
● Optimized and streamlined a massive dataset of 1 million survey records through data cleaning, preprocessing, and 
organization using Spark: increased data accuracy, enabling data-driven decision-making and improving insights 
extraction efficiency by 40%. 
● Implemented the machine learning algorithms using python to predict the quantity a user might want to order for a 
specific item so we can automatically suggest using kinesis firehose.
ACADEMIC PROJECT 
Big Data Project at University of Illinois at Springfield (08/2023-12-2023)
● Performed analysis for the company and business operation which includes leading cross-functional teams to execute 
data analytic projects valued at up to $130,000.
● Responsible for improving vendors' experience in return leg for Jabong.com. Increased vendor NPS by more than 
30% over 5 months reducing return TATs, improving vendor grievances resolution SLAs, and systematic process 
improvements leading to low instances of mismatch and damaged returns to vendors.
● Customer Behavior Analytics & RPC expansion and enhancement - Increasing the capacity from ~200 shipments/day 
to ~1500 shipments /day while maintaining the same service levels.
Healthcare Analytics University of Illinois at Springfield (01/2023-04/2023)
● Built ML models to identify Medicare members with transportation challenges by analyzing 800+ features of 70k 
patients. 
● Developed PowerShell scripts to automate routine database maintenance tasks, reducing manual effort by 60%
● Used Python APIs for extracting daily data from multiple vendors. 
● Lead a team of 3, Ranked among the top 50 out of 300+ teams in the US with a predictive accuracy of 
72.5% and AUC of 0.77. 
● Built machine learning predictive ETL pipelines which was accessed using REST API built out of geological data. 
● Deployed H20.ai’s Auto ML tool in AWS to iterate through different ML models for improving AUC. 
Cyber Sentinel Using Deep Learning: GITAM UNIVERSITY (01/2019-05/2019)
● Developed an algorithm using Deep Learning, Attention-based Models (BERT), to detect the cyberbullying text from 
messages collected from multiple sources like Twitter, YouTube, Facebook etc. 
● Used Python. Natural Language Processing, NLP, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib. 
● The algorithm also predicts the subject of the bullying (Gender, Religion, Ethnicity, age) for all the texts identified as 
Cyberbullying. 
● Implemented Click-stream analysis to analyze user behavioral patterns to predict customer drop-off to improve the 
customer conversion and achieved drop-off prediction to achieve a high accuracy of 93.36%. 
● Implemented table partitioning in oracle to manage large datasets. 
